Authoring docs for creating a project release layout (Windows to Windows) (#933)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/packaging/windows-release-builds.md

        ```cmd
        cmake --build build/windows_vs2019 --target MyProject.Assets --config profile -- /m
        ```

    - Run your project's Asset Processor to begin processing the assets.

<!-- [Question] Is it accurate to say that both methods can complete this task? Is one method recommended? If so, why? -->

{{< caution >}} Ensure that the Asset Processor or Asset Processor Batch processes all of your assets without failure. {{< /caution >}}

## Create a project game release layout

You can create a project game release layout by using a non-monolithic or monolithic build. A monolithic release layout only contains files that're necessary to run the project, such as the Game Launcher, packaged assets, and dependent `.dll` files. A non-monolithic release layout contains the same files needed to run the project, as well as the objects that you use for development such as tools, shader compilers, and all `.dll` files.

In this step, you will use CMake to build either a monolithic or a non-monolithic project and specify the `INSTALL` target and `release` configuration. This handles several tasks:

- Creates an `install` directory that will contain your release layout.

> - Packages an `engine.pak` file out of the product assets in your `Cache/pc` directory. 

Reviewer: maybe we should mention here that this pak is non-optimized, that it will contain all assets, a better version is being worked on that will just pak the assets that are needed

Reviewer 2: +1 and we should mention, if this file is larger than 4GiB it won't load in the game.

- Builds the Game Launcher and other supporting files.

### Monolithic project

1. Set up a new CMake build directory, `windows_mono`, for your monolithic build in your project directory. We recommend keeping this build directory separate from your non-monolithic build directory. Specify a monolithic build by enabling the `-D` option, `LY_MONOLITHIC_GAME`.

    ```cmd
    cmake -B build/windows_mono -S. -G "Visual Studio 16" -DLY_3RDPARTY_PATH=C:\o3de-packages -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1
    ```

> 2. Run the CMake build configuration in your monolithic build directory. This generates a Game Launcher and packages your project's assets in the `Cache` directory into `engine.pak`.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to re-iterate here that if that any .pak file over 4GiB likely will fail to load?  I'm not sure if we have a workaround for this yet, but the real way to do this would be to use the asset bundler to generate multiple .pak files and load those.

    ```cmd
    cmake --build build/windows_mono --target INSTALL --config release
    ```

> The result is a project release install directory that's located at `install/bin/windows/release/monolithic`.

Reviewer: the `monolithic` in this one should be first letter upper-case: `Monolithic`

Reviewer 3: Should the "windows" also be "Windows"?

### Non-monolithic projects

1. Run the CMake build configuration in your non-monolithic build directory, `build/windows_vs2019`.

    ```cmd
    cmake --build build/windows_vs2019 --target INSTALL --config release
    ```

The result is a project release install directory that's located at `install/bin/windows/release/Default`.

## Run the game launcher

Now that you've packaged your assets and built your project game release layout, you are ready to run your project's Game Launcher.

1. Open a command line window and change to your project's release build install directory.

2. Run the Game Launcher. Supply the path to the level that the project starts with. This opens the Game Launcher and loads the starting level.
    
    - **For a monolithic project**:
 
        ```cmd

>         ./MyProject.GameLauncher.exe --project-path="MyProject\install\bin\Windows\release\Monolithic"

Reviewer: `--project-path` is no longer needed

Reviewer 2: +1 Because the --project-path is no longer needed, we don't have to show two different commands, we can just show the one command to run the game launcher .exe

        ```

    - **For a non-monolithic project**:
    
        ```cmd

>         ./MyProject.GameLauncher.exe --project-path="MyProject\install\bin\Windows\release\Default"

Reviewer: `--project-path` is no longer needed

>         ```  

Reviewer 3: With the latest changes made to o3de development as of late last week, the `--project-path` parameter is no longer required.

Users only need to invoke the executable without that parameter.
i.e
```cmd
./MyProject.GameeLauncher.exe
```

> Now you can distribute your project and run it on other Windows devices!

Reviewer 2: Almost.... we need to mention that any other Windows PC you try to run this on, also needs to have the MSVC Redistributable installed https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160  Perhaps we should also mention creating an installer that would install this redistributable and the game?

```
{
    "O3DE": {
        "Autoexec": {
            "ConsoleCommands": {
                "LoadLevel": "levels/mainmenu/mainmenu.spawnable"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Process assets

The Asset Processor or Asset Processor Batch are responsible for processing source assets into product assets, which the Game Launcher consumes at runtime.

1. Process your project's assets by following either one of the following instructions.
    
    - Use **CMake** to build the Asset Processor Batch and its dependencies by specifying the `MyProject.Assets` target. After building, this command runs Asset Processor Batch and processes the assets.

        ```cmd
        cmake --build build/windows_vs2019 --target MyProject.Assets --config profile -- /m
        ```

    - Run your project's Asset Processor to begin processing the assets.

{{< caution >}} Ensure that the Asset Processor or Asset Processor Batch processes all of your assets without failure. {{< /caution >}}

> ## Create a project game release layout

Reviewer 4: it shoudl be specified that the monolithic project can be built only againt the monolithic SDK. There are no steps mentioend or linked that talk about building monolithic SDK

Reviewer 3: Well the monolithic SDK isn't required to build a monolithic project.

It is more accurate to state that a a project that uses an SDK, can only build monolithically if the SDK was built with monolithic support.

A project that uses the engine-source can be build monolithically without an SDK.
By using a project-centric engine-source workflow
`project-centric = CMake source directory is the project root`
`engine-source = The engine registered with the project refers to a location where the engine source code resides`

Reviewer 3: I'll explain the differences in workflows and non-monolithic/monolithic in detail here

First we are going to assume the engine source repo is located at `C:/o3de`.
The created SDK layout be located at `C:/o3de-install`
Any the project that we will create is located at `C:/TestProject`

So first the user grabs the O3DE repo from github.

At this point they have the following options available them.
- They can create a new projects using the `o3de.py` script
- They can register the engine with o3de_manifest.json
- They can register the engine with any existing projects and optionally build those projects using a project-centric engine-source workflow (`cmake -S C:/TestProject ...`)
- They can build the engine using an engine-centric workflow **non-monolithic(`cmake** -S C:/o3de -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=0 ...`)
- They can build the engine using an engine-centric workflow **monolithic(`cmake** -S C:/o3de -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1 ...`)
- They can "append" to SDK layout using either of the two previous previous bullet points

What the user _can't_ do at this point is to perform a project-centric engine-SDK build because they don't have an SDK yet.

So the steps for a user to create a project game release layout using a project-centric engine-source workflow could be as follows.

Non-Monolithic
---
```
# Create a project (This automatically registers the project with the engine where the o3de.py scripts resides)
C:/o3de>scripts\o3de.bat --create-project -pp C:/TestProject
# Configure the project-centric (by specifying the project as the CMake source directory) engine-source(via using the C:/o3de engine) workflow

# Either one of the following two commands are equivalent when it comes to cmake
C:/ThisPathDoesNotMatterItCanBeAnything>cmake -B C:/TestProject/build/windows_non_mono -S C:/TestProject
# or
C:/TestProject>cmake -B build/windows_non_mono -S .

# Make sure to process the Assets.
# This can be done at any point after the project has been created by running the AssetProcessor(Batch)
# But for this exercise the command to process the Assets will be added
# Every project has a ${ProjectName}.Assets CMake target, that builds the AssetProcessorBatch
# and executes it
Z:/ThisPathDoesNotMatterItCanBeAnything>cmake --build C:/TestProject/build/windows_mono --target TestProject.Assets --config release

# Next the Project Game Release Layout can be built using the following command to have CMake forward the build arguments to the underlying build tool
Z:/ThisPathDoesNotMatterItCanBeAnything>cmake --build C:/TestProject/build/windows_non_mono --target INSTALL --config release

# After the build command has run the Project Game release layout should be located at C:/TestProject/nstall/bin/Windows/release/Default
# The game launcher can be run with the following command now
C:/TestProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Default>TestProject.GameLauncher.exe
```

That covers the non-monolithic steps.

For the monolithic steps with using a project-centric engine-source workflow the only difference is the `LY_MONOLITHIC_GAME` variable value specified when configuring cmake

Monolithic
---
```
# Create a project (This automatically registers the project with the engine where the o3de.py scripts resides)
C:/o3de>scripts\o3de.bat --create-project -pp C:/TestProject
# Configure the project-centric (by specifying the project as the CMake source directory) engine-source(via using the C:/o3de engine) workflow

# Either one of the following two commands are equivalent when it comes to cmake
C:/ThisPathDoesNotMatterItCanBeAnything>cmake -B C:/TestProject/build/windows_mono -S C:/TestProject -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1
# or
C:/TestProject>cmake -B build/windows_mono -S . -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1

# Make sure to process the Assets.
# This can be done at any point after the project has been created by running the AssetProcessor(Batch)
# But for this exercise the command to process the Assets will be added
# Every project has a ${ProjectName}.Assets CMake target, that builds the AssetProcessorBatch
# and executes it
Z:/ThisPathDoesNotMatterItCanBeAnything>cmake --build C:/TestProject/build/windows_mono --target TestProject.Assets --config release

# Next the Project Game Release Layout can be built using the following command to have CMake forward the build arguments to the underlying build tool
Z:/ThisPathDoesNotMatterItCanBeAnything>cmake --build C:/TestProject/build/windows_mono --target INSTALL --config release

# After the build command has run the Project Game release layout should be located at C:/TestProject/nstall/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic
# The game launcher can be run with the following command now
C:/TestProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic>TestProject.GameLauncher.exe
```

That covers how to create a project game release layout without using an SDK.

### Now to create a Project Game Release layout using an SDK, the monolithic build artifacts will have to be added to the SDK.

We can use the O3DE repo at `C:/o3de` to create an SDK layout with both non-monolithic and monolithic artifacts.

Earlier in the post, one of the options available to the user was
> They can "append" to SDK layout using either of the two previous previous bullet points

The keyword here is "append".

Now on to the steps to create an SDK layout with both Non-Monolithic and Monolithic artifacts
NOTE: This is engine-centric; The current directory is the engine root and the CMAKE source directory specified via the the `-S` option supplies the current directory `.` as the path

SDK layout "append" Non-Monolithic artifacts
---
```
# First customize the SDK layout directory using the -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX option and the new engine name using the -DLY_VERSION_ENGINE_NAME option
C:/o3de>cmake -B build/windows_vs2019 -S . -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=C:/o3de-install -DLY_VERSION_ENGINE_NAME=o3de-install

# Next add the profile non-monolithic artifacts will be appended to the SDK layout
C:/o3de>cmake --build build/windows_vs2019 --target INSTALL --config profile

# Now add the release non-monolithic artifacts will be appended
C:/o3de>cmake --build build/windows_vs2019 --target INSTALL --config release
```

This will create an SDK layout at `C:/o3de-install` that has both the `profile` and `release` non-monolithic directories
This can validated checking that the following directories exists `C:/o3de-install/lib/Windows/profile/Default` and `C:/o3de-install/lib/Windows/release/Default`

Next is the steps that follow will append the Monolithic artifacts to the existing SDK layout

SDK layout "append" Monolithic artifacts
---
```
# Point the monolithic build folder at the same the SDK layout folder as the non-monolithic configuration
C:/o3de>cmake -B build/windows_mono -S . -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1 -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=C:/o3de-install -DLY_VERSION_ENGINE_NAME=o3de-install

# Now we will only add the release monolithic artifacts to the SDK layout. Adding profile artifacts doesn't really help create a Project Game Release Layout
C:/o3de>cmake --build build/windows_mono --target INSTALL --config release
```

At this point the SDK layout at `C:/o3de-install should contain the `release` monolithic directories.
This can be verified by checking that the `C:/o3de-install/lib/Windows/release/Monolithic` directory exists

Finally at this point the SDK layout can be used to create a Project Game Release Layout using either non-monolithic or monolithic artifacts.
Since this post is so long already, I'll just show the commands to create a Project Game Release Layout with a monolithic game launcher

Make sure python is installed and the engine is registered with `o3de_manifest.json` beforehand

```
C:/o3de>python\get_python.bat
C:/o3de>scripts\o3de.bat register --this-engine
```

Also make sure the Assets are already processed for the project

Monolithic
---
```
# Use the SDK layout `o3de.py` script to register the SDK engine with the Test Project
# NOTE: The current directory is the engine root
C:/o3de>scripts\o3de.bat register --pp C:/TestProject

# Generate a project-centric monolithic build solution. 
# NOTE: the current directory is the project root
C:\TestProject>cmake -B build/windows_mono_install -S . -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1

# Generate the Project Game Release layout by building the INSTALL target in the release config
C:\TestProject>cmake -B build/windows_mono_install --target INSTALL --config release

# The game launcher can also now be run with the following command
C:/TestProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic>TestProject.GameLauncher.exe
```

### Side Note:
The `INSTALL` command is actually called "install" when using `ninja` or `make` as a generator.
Those generators are normally used on Linux

In this step, you will use CMake to build either a monolithic or a non-monolithic project and specify the `INSTALL` target and `release` configuration. This handles several tasks:

- Creates an `install` directory that will contain your release layout.

- Bundles your game content into an `engine.pak` file by packaging all of the product assets in your `Cache/pc` directory.

- Builds the Game Launcher and other supporting files.

{{< todo >}}
The Game Launcher may fail to load your assets if the `engine.pak` file is over 4 GB. This issue will be resolved when development on the Asset Bundler is stable.
{{< /todo >}}

### Monolithic project

1. Set up a new CMake build directory, `windows_mono`, for your monolithic build in your project directory. We recommend keeping this build directory separate from your non-monolithic build directory. Specify a monolithic build by enabling the `-D` option, `LY_MONOLITHIC_GAME`.

    ```cmd

>     cmake -B build/windows_mono -S. -G "Visual Studio 16" -DLY_3RDPARTY_PATH=C:\o3de-packages -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1

Reviewer 4: Is this needs to run from source engine directory ot install layout directory? or project directory?

    ```

2. Run the CMake build configuration in your monolithic build directory. This generates a Game Launcher and packages your project's assets in the `Cache` directory into `engine.pak`.

    ```cmd

>     cmake --build build/windows_mono --target INSTALL --config release

Reviewer 4: Is this needs to run from source engine directory ot install layout directory? or project directory?

Reviewer: in the project directory. 
Its under the "Monolithic project", but I see where there can be confussion.
I suggest to indicate the directory is being running from in every case.

---
title: "Creating a Project Game Release Layout for Windows"
linktitle: "Project Game Release Layout (Windows)"

> description: Learn how to create a proejct game release layout for Windows with Open 3D Engine (O3DE). 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to create a project game release layout for Windows with Open 3D Engine (O3DE). 
```

toc: true
---

This tutorial guides you through the process of creating a project game release layout for Windows PCs in **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**. A *project game release layout* is a directory structure that contains the **Game Launcher** and the packaged assets needed to run the Game Launcher outside of the developer environment. 

> *Bundled content* are product assets that're bundled from the project's `Cache/pc` directory into package files (`.pak`). The Game Launcher loads the bundled content that make up a project, such as its levels, objects, environment, and game play logic.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
*Bundled content* are product assets that're bundled from the project's `Cache/pc` directory into package files (`.pak`). The Game Launcher loads the bundled content that make up a project, such as its levels, objects, environment, and gameplay logic.
```

## Create a project game release layout

You can create a project game release layout by using a non-monolithic or monolithic build. A monolithic release layout only contains files that are necessary to run the project, such as the Game Launcher, bundled content, and a minimal set of dependent `.dll` files, if any. A non-monolithic release layout contains the same files needed to run the project, as well as the objects that you use for development such as tools, shader compilers, and all `.dll` files.  Non-monolithic releases are typically much larger than monolithic releases. On some platforms that don't allow loading shared objects, you must use a monolithic release.

In this step, you will use CMake to build either a monolithic or a non-monolithic project and specify the `INSTALL` target and `release` configuration. This handles several tasks:

- Creates an `install` directory that will contain your release layout.

- Bundles your game content into an `engine.pak` file by packaging all of the product assets in your `Cache/pc` directory.

- Builds the Game Launcher and other supporting files.

{{< note >}}

> The Game Launcher may fail to load your assets if the `engine.pak` file is over 4GB. We suggest that you clean up and reprocess your assets to reduce the file size of your bundled content.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Game Launcher may fail to load your assets if the `engine.pak` file is over 4 GB. We suggest that you clean up and reprocess your assets to reduce the file size of your bundled content.
```

    ```cmd
    cmake -B build/windows_mono -S. -G "Visual Studio 16" -DLY_3RDPARTY_PATH=C:\o3de-packages -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1
    ```

2. Run the CMake build configuration in your monolithic build directory. This generates a Game Launcher and packages your project's assets in the `Cache` directory into `engine.pak`.

    ```cmd
    cmake --build build/windows_mono --target INSTALL --config release
    ```

The result is a project release install directory that's located at `install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic`.

### Non-monolithic projects

1. Run the CMake build configuration in your non-monolithic build directory, `build/windows_vs2019`.

    ```cmd
    cmake --build build/windows_vs2019 --target INSTALL --config release
    ```

The result is a project release install directory that's located at `install/bin/Windows/release/Default`.

## Run the game launcher

Now that you've packaged your assets and built your project game release layout, you are ready to run your project's Game Launcher.

1. Open a command line window and change to your project's release build install directory.

> 2. Run the Game Launcher. Supply the path to the level that the project starts with. This opens the Game Launcher and loads the starting level.

Reviewer 5: I don't see a path to the level in the example below. Seems like this would be an optional parameter. Do you want to show a 2nd example using the optional level path?

Author: Good catch! I am removing that sentence. We no longer have to supply the path to a level because we set the starting level in the first step of this guide.

    
    ```cmd
    ./MyProject.GameLauncher.exe
    ```  

> Now you can distribute your project to other Windows devices! They must install 
> [Microsoft Visual C++ (MSVC) Redistributable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160) to run the Game Launcher.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now you can distribute your project to other Windows devices. To run the Game Launcher, [Microsoft Visual C++ (MSVC) Redistributable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160) must be installed.
```

---
title: "Creating a Project Game Release Layout for Windows"
linktitle: "Project Game Release Layout (Windows)"
description: Learn how to create a project game release layout for Windows with Open 3D Engine (O3DE). 
toc: true
---

This tutorial guides you through the process of creating a project game release layout for Windows PCs in **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)**. A *project game release layout* is a directory structure that contains the **Game Launcher** and the packaged assets needed to run the Game Launcher outside of the developer environment. 

> A release build requires *Bundled content*, product assets pulled from the project's `Cache/pc` directory into package files (`.pak`). The Game Launcher loads the bundled content that make up a project, such as its levels, objects, environment, and gameplay logic.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A release build requires *bundled content*, product assets pulled from the project's `Cache/pc` directory into package files (`.pak`). The Game Launcher loads the bundled content that make up a project, such as its levels, objects, environment, and gameplay logic.
```

- Registered your project to your engine. For help, refer to 

This tutorial uses the following directories in the examples.

- Project name and directory: `C:/MyProject`
  - Project's profile build directory: `C:/MyProject/build/windows_vs2019/bin/profile`
  - Project's release build directory: `C:/MyProject/build/windows_vs2019/bin/release`

- Third-party directory: `C:/o3de-packages`
- Source engine: `C:/o3de`
- Pre-built SDK engine: `C:/o3de-install`

## Set the starting level

Before you create a project game release layout, specify the starting level that the Game Launcher will load first in your settings registry.

1. Create an `autoexec.game.setreg` file in `MyProject/Registry` directory and add the following lines. This sets the starting level by using `Loadlevel` and providing a path to the level. The path must be relative to the `Cache/pc` directory. In this example, the level asset is `mainmenu.spawnable`.

```
{
    "O3DE": {
        "Autoexec": {
            "ConsoleCommands": {

>                 "LoadLevel": "levels/mainmenu/mainmenu.spawnable"

Reviewer 3: After investigating the [code](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/Code/Legacy/CrySystem/LevelSystem/SpawnableLevelSystem.cpp#L221), this works with just the name of the level as well without any extensions
So the line  of `"LoadLevel": "mainmenu"` would work as well

Reviewer 2: +1 for simpler version

- Bundles your game content into an `engine.pak` file by packaging all of the product assets in your `Cache/pc` directory.

- Builds the Game Launcher and other supporting files.

{{< todo >}}
The Game Launcher may fail to load your assets if the `engine.pak` file is over 4 GB. This issue will be resolved when development on the Asset Bundler is stable.
{{< /todo >}}

### Using source engine
 
With the source engine, you must use a project-centric configuration to create a project game release layout. In a project-centric configuration, the CMake source directory is in the project build directory.

The source engine supports non-monolithic projects by default. As listed under [Prerequisites](#prerequisites), you should have already created a Visual Studio project for the engine and registered the engine.

#### Non-monolithic

1. Use CMake to invoke Visual Studio to build your non-monolithic project. Specify the `INSTALL` target and `release` configuration.

    ```cmd
    cd C:/o3de-projects/MyProject
    cmake --build build/windows_vs2019 --target INSTALL --config release. 
    ```

> The result is a project release install directory that's located in your project's directory at `install/bin/Windows/release/Default`. Your packaged assets are located in `Cache/pc` in your project release install directory.

Reviewer 3: I think we should clarify this by stating this is the directory is the specified to the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` when configuring the project. If that variable wasn't set it defaults to the `<project-root>/install/bin/Windows/release/Default` directory.

#### Monolithic

> 1. Use CMake to create a Visual Studio project for a monolithic project. Specify a new CMake build directory, `build/windows_mono`, in your project directory to seperate it from your non-monolithic build directory. Specify a monolithic build by enabling the `-D` option, `LY_MONOLITHIC_GAME`.

Reviewer 3: typo: fix `seperate` -> `separate`

    ```cmd
    cd C:/o3de-projects/MyProject
    cmake -B build/windows_mono -S. -G "Visual Studio 16" -DLY_3RDPARTY_PATH=C:\o3de-packages -DLY_MONOLITHIC_GAME=1
    ```

2. Use CMake to invoke Visual Studio to build your monolithic project. Specify the `INSTALL` target and `release` configuration. This generates a Game Launcher and packages your project's assets in the `<project>/Cache` directory into `engine.pak`.

    ```cmd
    cd C:/o3de-projects/MyProject
    cmake --build build/windows_mono --target INSTALL --config release
    ```

> The result is a project release install directory that's located in your project's directory at `install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic`. Your packaged assets are located in `Cache/pc` in your project release install directory. 

Reviewer 3: Similier to the Non-Monolithic Project Game Release Layout, we should clarify that this install directory is the value of the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` cache variable which default to the `<project-root>/install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic` if not specified.

Reviewer 2: +1,  it's good to point this out because likely users will want to set `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` to put the output in a custom location on their disk

Now, you'll create a bundle for your project's engine assets. 

#### Generate an asset list from default seed lists

1. Navigate to the Seeds tab. 

2. Select **Default Seed Lists** at the bottom of the **Seed List files** panel. Make sure to deselect other seed list files. 

2. Click **Generate Asset Lists**. This will open the **Generate Asset List files** dialog. 

3. In the list of platforms, select **pc** by enabling the check box.  

4. Click **Browse...** to open the File Explorer. 

5. Enter a name for your asset list and save. In this example, we'll use the name `engine.assetlist`. 

5. Navigate to the **Asset Lists** tab to verify the assets in `engine.assetlist`. The assets are listed under the **Asset List** panel. 

#### Bundle your assets

1. Select your `engine.assetlist` in the** Asset List Files** panel under the **Asset Lists** tab.

2. Click **Generate Bundle**. This opens the **Generate Bundles** dialog. 

3. Click **Browse...** to open the File Explorer. 

4. Enter a name for your package file and save. In this example, we'll use the name `engine_bundle.pak`.

You now have two bundled content: `game_bundle.pak` and `engine_bundle.pak`. 

> ### Add your bundles to install layout

Reviewer 6: What does "to install layout" mean here? Is it:
* An infinitive verb ("to install [the] layout")?
* A noun/location ("to [the] install layout")? Should it say "directory" instead? ("to [the] install directory")

For clarification, consider adding a definite article ("the") somewhere in this subheader.

> Next, add `game_bundle.pak` and `engine_bundle.pak` to `install/bin/Windows/release/Default`. You can remove the `engine.pak` file that was created earlier. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Next, add your `game_bundle.pak` and `engine_bundle.pak` files to `install/bin/Windows/release/Default`. You can remove the `engine.pak` file created earlier.
```
* Minor edits for flow.
* Is the action in the second sentence ("you can remove the `engine.pak` file") optional or required? Clarify by adding "Optionally, you can..." or "Be sure to remove...".

## Run the game launcher

> Now that you've packaged your assets and built your project game release layout, you are ready to run your project's Game Launcher.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Now that you've packaged your assets and built your project game release layout, you're ready to run your project's Game Launcher.
```

1. Open a command line window and change to your project's release build install directory.

>     - For monolithic release builds:
>         ```cmd
>         cd C:/o3de-projects/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic
>         ```
> 
>     - For non-monolithic release builds:
>         ```cmd
>         cd C:/o3de-projects/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Default
>         ```

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - For non-monolithic release builds:
        ```cmd
        cd C:/o3de-projects/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Default
        ```

    - For monolithic release builds:
        ```cmd
        cd C:/o3de-projects/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic
        ```
```
I re-ordered these two step alternatives here. Per an earlier comment, keep the order of "non-monolithic"/"monolithic" consistent.

> 2. Run the Game Launcher. This opens the Game Launcher and loads the starting level.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
2. Run the Game Launcher. The Game Launcher opens and loads the starting level.
```

    
    ```cmd
    ./MyProject.GameLauncher.exe
    ```  
    

> Now you can distribute your project to other Windows devices. To run the Game Launcher, [Microsoft Visual C++ (MSVC) Redistributable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160) must be installed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Now you can distribute your project to other Windows devices. To run the Game Launcher, you must install the [Microsoft Visual C++ (MSVC) Redistributable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160).
```
Passive voice fix

- `C:\MyProject` --- If you're using a source engine.
- `C:\o3de-install` --- If you're using a pre-built SDK engine.

### Set up Asset Bundler

To set up and run Asset Bundler:

1. In your `<engine>` directory, use CMake to invoke Visual Studio to build the Asset Bundler.

    ```cmd
    cmake --build build\windows_vs2019 --target AssetBundler --config profile -- /m
    ```

    This command contains the following options:

    - `--target AssetBundler`: Sets the build target to Asset Bundler and Asset Bundler Batch, and their dependent modules.

    - `--config profile`: Sets the build configuration to profile, which enables optimization and allows debugging.

2. Run `AssetBundler.exe` from the `<engine>\build\windows_vs2019\bin\profile` directory. This opens Asset Bundler with the GUI, which we'll use in the following examples. (Alternatively, to use the CLI, run `AssetBundlerBatch.exe`.)

Now you have the Asset Bundler running. It should look like this:

{{< image-width "/images/user-guide/packaging/windows-release-build/asset-bundler-default-gui.png" "1000" "An annotated image of O3DE editor's user interface." >}}

<br></br>

{{< known-issue >}}

> There may be errors and warnings about the "AssetBundler" and "AssetSeedManager" that are listed in the console of the Asset Bundler. You can safely ignore them.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
There may be errors and warnings about "AssetBundler" and "AssetSeedManager" that are listed in the console of Asset Bundler. You can safely ignore them.
```

{{< /known-issue >}}

### Create a bundle for game assets

> When bundling your game assets, it's only important to bundle assets that your game actually uses in its levels. There's no need to include assets in your project directory that are never loaded in your project. You can use the Asset Bundler to generate a list of assets that your levels depend on. This helps ensure that your resulting package file is at an optimal size.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
When bundling your game assets, it's only important to bundle assets that your game actually uses in its levels. There's no need to include assets in your project directory that are never loaded in your project. You can use Asset Bundler to generate a list of assets that your levels depend on. This helps ensure that your resulting package file is at an optimal size.
```

#### Create a new seed asset list

> 1. In the Asset Bundler, on the **Seeds** tab, in the **Seed List file** panel, click **Create a new Seed List file**. For this example, name the file `GameSeedList`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, on the **Seeds** tab, in the **Seed List file** panel, click **Create a new Seed List file**. For this example, name the file `GameSeedList`.
```
Because we shifted from using "the Asset Bundler" in the previous edit pass to "Asset Bundler" (proper tool name, no "the") in the latest version, I'm enforcing calling it just "Asset Bundler". However, since these procedures refer specifically to "the Asset Bundler GUI," I'm just adding "GUI" at the end of these references. If there's a better, more specific name for the GUI version of the tool, you can use that instead.

> 2. Select the `GameSeedList` file from the list.
> 
> 3. In the **Product Assets** panel, click **+ Add Asset**, which opens the **Add Seed Asset** dialog.
> 
> 4. In the list of platforms, select the **pc** check box.
> 
> 5. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Select the `GameSeedList` file from the list.

1. In the **Product Assets** panel, click **+ Add Asset**, which opens the **Add Seed Asset** dialog.

1. In the list of platforms, select the **pc** check box.

1. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.
```
For these and all subsequent procedure steps, consider using neutral list ordering numbers, per previous comments.

> 6. In File Explorer, navigate to the `levels` folder, and then choose **Add Seed**.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In File Explorer, browse to the `levels` folder, and then choose **Add Seed**.
```
The use of a specific GUI label string ("Add Seed") here makes it sound as though this is a proprietary file browser in the GUI. Is that right, or is this actually Windows' own File Explorer tool? If the former, don't use "File Explorer." Either cut the intro here ("Browse to the...") or call it something generic ("In the file browser, navigate to...").

> 7. In the Asset Bundler, in the **Product Assets** panel, verify that your seed list has the level assets.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, in the **Product Assets** panel, verify that your seed list has the level assets.
```

#### Generate an asset list

> 1. In the Asset Bundler, select your new seed list file from the list.
> 
> 2. Click **Generate Asset Lists**, which opens the **Generate Asset List files** dialog.
> 
> 3. In the list of platforms, select the **pc** check box.
> 
> 4. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.
> 
> 5. In File Explorer, enter a name for your asset list, and then click **Save**. For this example, use the name `game.assetlist`.
> 
> 6. In the Asset Bundler, navigate to the **Asset Lists** tab to verify the assets in `game.assetlist`. The assets are listed in the **Asset List** panel.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, select your new seed list file from the list.

1. Click **Generate Asset Lists**, which opens the **Generate Asset List files** dialog.

1. In the list of platforms, select the **pc** check box.

1. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.

1. In File Explorer, enter a name for your asset list, and then click **Save**. For this example, use the name `game.assetlist`.

1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, navigate to the **Asset Lists** tab to verify the assets in `game.assetlist`. The assets are listed in the **Asset List** panel.
```

#### Bundle your assets

> 1. In the Asset Bundler, on the **Asset Lists** tab, in the **Asset List Files** panel, select your asset list (`game.assetlist`).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, on the **Asset Lists** tab, in the **Asset List Files** panel, select your asset list (`game.assetlist`).
```

> 2. Click **Generate Bundle**, which opens the **Generate Bundles** dialog.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Click **Generate Bundle**, which opens the **Generate Bundles** dialog.
```

> 3. Click **Browse...**, which opens the File Explorer.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.
```
Does this actually open Windows' own File Explorer tool? If so, drop "the", as it's a proper noun. If not, don't use "File Explorer." Instead, call it something generic (", which opens a file browser.").

> 4. In File Explorer, enter a name for your package file, and then click **Save**. For this example, use the name `game.pak`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In File Explorer, enter a name for your package file, and then click **Save**. For this example, use the name `game.pak`.
```
See above comment about File Explorer.

### Create a bundle for engine assets

Next, create a bundle for your project's engine assets.

#### Generate an asset list from default seed lists

> 1. In the Asset Bundler, navigate to the **Seeds** tab.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, navigate to the **Seeds** tab.
```

> 2. At the bottom of the **Seed List files** panel, select the **Default Seed Lists** check box. Make sure to deselect the `GameSeedList` file.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. At the bottom of the **Seed List files** panel, select the **Default Seed Lists** check box. Make sure to deselect the `GameSeedList` file.
```

> 3. Click **Generate Asset Lists**, which opens the **Generate Asset List files** dialog.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Click **Generate Asset Lists**, which opens the **Generate Asset List files** dialog.
```

> 4. In the list of platforms, select the **pc** check box.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the list of platforms, select the **pc** check box.
```

> 5. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.
```

> 6. In File Explorer, enter a name for your asset list, and then click **Save**. For this example, we'll use the name `engine.assetlist`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In File Explorer, enter a name for your asset list, and then click **Save**. For this example, we'll use the name `engine.assetlist`.
```

> 7. In the Asset Bundler, navigate to the **Asset Lists** tab to verify the assets in `engine.assetlist`. The assets are listed in the **Asset List** panel.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, navigate to the **Asset Lists** tab to verify the assets in `engine.assetlist`. The assets are listed in the **Asset List** panel.
```

#### Bundle your assets

> 1. In the Asset Bundler, on the **Asset Lists** tab, in the **Asset List Files** panel, select the `engine.assetlist` file.
> 
> 2. Click **Generate Bundle**, which opens the **Generate Bundles** dialog.
> 
> 3. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.
> 
> 4. In File Explorer, enter a name for your package file, and then click **Save**. For this example, use the name `engine.pak`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, on the **Asset Lists** tab, in the **Asset List Files** panel, select the `engine.assetlist` file.

1. Click **Generate Bundle**, which opens the **Generate Bundles** dialog.

1. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.

1. In File Explorer, enter a name for your package file, and then click **Save**. For this example, use the name `engine.pak`.
```

> For Windows, when Asset Bundler saves your bundle, it appends `_pc` to the bundle's name. So, you now have two asset bundles: `game_pc.pak` and `engine_pc.pak`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
For Windows, when Asset Bundler saves your bundle, it appends `_pc` to the bundle's name. So you should now have two asset bundles: `game_pc.pak` and `engine_pc.pak`.
```

### Add bundles to the project game release layout

> Next, add your `game_pc.pak` and `engine_pc.pak` files to your project game release layout, so the Game Launcher can load assets from those bundles.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Next, add your `game_pc.pak` and `engine_pc.pak` files to your project game release layout, so that the Game Launcher can load assets from those bundles.
```

> 1. Navigate to the `<install>/bin/Windows/release/<build>/Cache/pc` directory, which contains the bundled content in your project game release layout directory. For example, the default path may be:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the `<install>\bin\Windows\release\<build>\Cache\pc` directory, which contains the bundled content in your project game release layout directory. For example, the default path could be:
```

   - `C:/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Default/Cache/pc` -- For non-monolithic.

>    - `C:/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic/Cache/pc` -- For monolithic.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
   - `C:\MyProject\install\bin\Windows\release\Default\Cache\pc` -- For non-monolithic builds.

   - `C:\MyProject\install\bin\Windows\release\Monolithic\Cache\pc` -- For monolithic builds.
```
I'm unsure if "builds" or "projects" is the correct word to append here. Use whichever's accurate.

> 2. Remove the `engine.pak` file that was created earlier in [Create a project game release layout](#create-a-project-game-release-layout). You don't need it because you created new bundles.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Remove the `engine.pak` file created earlier in [Create a project game release layout](#create-a-project-game-release-layout). You don't need it because you created new bundles.
```
Drop "that was" to avoid the obvious passive construction ("was created").

> 3. Add your new bundles: `game_bundle_pc.pak` and `engine_bundle_pc.pak`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. Add your new bundles: `game_bundle_pc.pak` and `engine_bundle_pc.pak`.
```

## Run the game launcher

Now you're ready to run your project's Game Launcher.

> Run `GameLauncher.exe` from your project game release layout, which is located in the `<install>/bin/Windows/release/<build>` directory. Examples of the path are

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Run `GameLauncher.exe` from your project game release layout, which is located in the `<install>\bin\Windows\release\<build>` directory. For example, the path could be:
```

> - `C:/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Default` -- for non-monolithic.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- `C:\MyProject\install\bin\Windows\release\Default` -- For non-monolithic projects.
```
Again here, I'm unsure if "builds" or "projects" is the correct word to append here. Or something else. But use a noun to complete the thought here.

> - `C:/MyProject/install/bin/Windows/release/Monolithic` -- for monolithic.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- `C:\MyProject\install\bin\Windows\release\Monolithic` -- For monolithic projects.
```
Same comment as above

> Now you can distribute your project to other Windows devices. To run the Game Launcher, you must install [Microsoft Visual C++ (MSVC) Redistributable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Now you can distribute your project to other Windows devices. To run the Game Launcher, you must install the [Microsoft Visual C++ (MSVC) Redistributable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-160).
```
For consistency with phrasing in the linked MS documentation, include "the."

## Debugging

> If you encounter issues when you build a project for release, try the following techniques to help you debug.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To help you debug if you encounter issues while building a project for release, try the following techniques.
```

### Compile with optimizations disabled and debug symbols enabled

> In Visual Studio 2019, you can compile with optimizations disabled and debug symbols enabled. This allows Visual Studio 2019's debugging tools to produce more helpful information that can help you debug.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In Visual Studio 2019, you can compile with optimizations disabled and debug symbols enabled. This lets Visual Studio 2019's debugging tools produce more helpful information that can help you debug.
```

> To do this, make the following modifications to `Configurations_msvc.cmake` in the `<engine>/cmake/Platform/Common/MSVC` directory. In `ly_append_configurations_options`, under `COMPILATION _RELEASE`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Make the following modifications to the `Configurations_msvc.cmake` file in the `<engine>\cmake\Platform\Common\MSVC` directory. In `ly_append_configurations_options`, under `COMPILATION _RELEASE`:
```

 - Change `/Od` to `/Ox`.
 - Add `/Zi`.

After making those modifications, `ly_append_configurations_options` should look like this:

```
ly_append_configurations_options(

    # ...

    COMPILATION_RELEASE
        /Od             # Enable debug symbols
        /Ob2            # Inline any suitable function
        /Ot             # Favor fast code over small code
        /Oi             # Use Intrinsic Functions
        /Oy             # Omit the frame pointer
        /Zi             # Generate debugging information (no Edit/Continue)
    
    # ... 
```

### Create a `profile` build

> You can build with the `profile` configuration to debug a non-monolithic or monolithic build and its `.pak` files. The `profile` configuration creates log files that provide information to help you debug. For information on O3DE log files, refer to [Log Files](\docs\user-guide\appendix\log-files.md).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To debug a non-monolithic or monolithic build and its `.pak` files, you can build with the `profile` configuration. The `profile` configuration creates log files that provide information to help you debug. For information on O3DE log files, refer to [Open 3D Engine Log Files](/docs/user-guide/appendix/log-files).
```
* Re-ordered the first sentence to lead with the intent/infinitive phrase ("To debug...").
* Fixed the broken link path and updated the name of the destination topic for consistency.

Use CMake to invoke Visual Studio to build your project with the `profile` configuration.

```cmd
cd C:\MyProject
cmake --build <build> --target INSTALL --config profile
```

> Replace `<build>` with either one of the following:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Replace `<build>` with either of the following:
```

1. Click **Browse...**, which opens File Explorer.

1. In File Explorer, browse to the `levels` folder.

1. In the **Add Seed Asset** dialog, click **Add Seed**.

> 1. In the Asset Bundler, in the **Product Assets** panel, verify that your seed list has the level assets.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
1. In the Asset Bundler GUI, in the **Product Assets** panel, verify that your seed list has the level assets.
```
